DOCSP-42625 Version 8.1 update (#30)
mongodb/docs-entity-framework: source/upgrade.txt

.. _entity-framework-upgrade-provider:

========================
Upgrade Provider Version
========================

.. contents:: On this page
   :local:
   :backlinks: none
   :depth: 1
   :class: singlecol

.. facet::
   :name: genre
   :values: reference

.. meta::
   :keywords: breaking change, update, version

Overview
--------

In this section, you can identify essential changes you must make to your
application when you upgrade your provider to a new version.

Before you upgrade, perform the following actions:

- Ensure the new version is compatible with the {+mdb-server+} version
  your application connects to and the {+language-dotnet+} version your
  application runs on. See the :ref:`Compatibility <entity-framework-compatibility>`
  section for this information.
- Address any breaking changes between the current version of the provider
  your application is using and your planned upgrade version in the
  :ref:`Breaking Changes <entity-framework-breaking-changes>` section.

.. _entity-framework-breaking-changes:

Breaking Changes
----------------

A breaking change is a modification of a convention or a behavior starting in

> a specific version of the provider. This type of change may prevent your application from

Reviewer: ```suggestion
a specific version of the provider. This type of change might prevent your application from
```

working properly if not addressed before upgrading the provider.

The breaking changes in this section are categorized by the provider version that
introduced them. When upgrading provider versions, address all the breaking
changes between the current and upgrade versions. For example, if you
are upgrading the provider from v8.0 to v8.5, address all breaking changes from

> the version after v8.0 including any listed under v8.5.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the version after v8.0, including any listed under v8.5.
```

.. _entity-framework-breaking-changes-v8.1:

Version 8.1.0 Breaking Changes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Updated the {+provider-short+} to run all changes as MongoDB transactions. If your
  application uses {+mdb-server+} earlier than v5.0, or does not run in a
  replica set, you must make the following changes to your application:

>   - If your application is configured for {+mdb-server+} earlier than v5.0, you

Reviewer: S:

```suggestion
  - If your application is configured for a {+mdb-server+} version earlier than v5.0, you
```

    must upgrade to {+mdb-server+} v5.0 or later.
  - If your application runs on a standalone server, you must reconfigure your
    standalone server to a single-instance replica set. To learn more about how
    to reconfigure your standalone server, see
    :manual:`Convert a Standalone Self-Managed mongod to a Replica Set </tutorial/convert-standalone-to-replica-set>` in the
    {+mdb-server+} manual.
  - If your application runs in a container environment, switch to a
    single-instance replica set container if one is available.

  To avoid snapshot issues during transactions, call the ``EnsureCreated()`` or

>   ``EnsureCreatedAsync()`` during your application start-up, rather than

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  ``EnsureCreatedAsync()`` method during your application start-up, rather than
```

  creating the collection or database
  implicitly.

>   If you don't want to ensure optimistic concurrency with transactions, you can

Reviewer: "optimistic concurrency" is a new phrase to me, and i wonder if it might also be for our users. would a link to wikipedia or somewhere make sense here? 

not positive this syntax is correct:

```suggestion
  If you don't want to ensure :wikipedia:`optimistic concurrency <Optimistic_concurrency_control>` with transactions, you can
```

  disable automatic transactions by setting ``Database.AutoTransactionBehavior =
  AutoTrasactionBehavior.Never`` on your ``DbContext`` subclass during your
  application setup.

> - Changed the default GUID storage format from ``CSharpLegacy`` binary format,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Changed the default GUID storage format from ``CSharpLegacy`` binary format
```

  to ``Standard`` format. If your database contains existing GUIDs that are not
  in ``Standard`` format, we recommend converting them to ``Standard`` format.

- The ``CamelCaseElementNameConvention`` cases owned entities based on their

>   property name instead of their class name. If your application uses the

Reviewer: Q: having a hard time parsing this. is "owned" a verb here, describing something that is no longer true?

Author: It's referring to "owned entities" (the EF term for objects nested in another object). I adjusted the wording a little bit to try and make it more clear

  ``CamelCaseElementNameConvention``, the casing of your data might change.

For more information about the breaking changes in this version, see the

> :github:`Breaking Changes
> <mongodb/mongo-efcore-provider/blob/main/BREAKING-CHANGES.md>` release notes.

Reviewer: S:

```suggestion
:github:`Breaking Changes
<mongodb/mongo-efcore-provider/blob/main/BREAKING-CHANGES.md>` section
of the provider repository on GitHub.
```
